hello friends myself akashic i welcome
you all on my channel where theta
learning platform and from today onwards
in this series of socket programming i
will start about this socket server
programs how to write a program which
will act like a server in c++ okay so
let's start i have opened the ide right
so before you start writing your program
in Windows you need to understand two
things like first thing is you need to
include this Windows windsock dot H file
and then apart from this you need to add
this library W soft 32 just go to the
linker and press input and then you can
see this library I have added this
library W shop 32 dot late right this is
the library which contains the
definition for all those functions which
have been defined in Vince all dot H I
hope you understand what is the concept
of libraries because I am NOT going to
discuss about the libraries for that I
may create some separate playlist on my
channel but today I am NOT going to
discuss about the libraries and how they
work and how you use them in program
right so you just need to remember that
you need to include Vince all cottage
and apart from this you need to add that
W soft 32 dot Lib reference in your
library section in your linker section
right so if you are writing a server
program then one of what all you need to
do is you first need to initialize the
socket which will be listening for the
client request and then you need to
initialize the environment for sock
address structure what is sock address I
will let you know and how to fill that I
will let you know and then you need to
bind to the local port why you need to
bind to the local port my system on
which I have my program is running there
are number of services running on my
system but all those services has the
same interests my computer has address
over the network and all those services
have the same address if some client is
coming to the to my computer and he
needs a service from certain program of
or from certain service right then that
the particular client need to know that
at which port I need to go through so
that
leads to the correct program so pores
are exposed for that purpose okay so we
need to connect to the local port so you
can take any port apart from 0 to 256
because those are reserved ports and on
those ports you have certain programs
already running which are the system
programs such system services aren't
there they are running so greater than
256 you can take any port so usually we
take the port as 9000 or you know 6000
7000 in that area right in that limit ok
so then after binding to the local port
you need to listen to the request from
the client because some time may need to
connect to you or some client which is
already connected he may need to send
some message to you right
so for that purpose we need to listen to
the listen the request from the client
and then you need to keep waiting for
the new request and proceed as per the
request this is the listen where you are
listening for them you client and then
you need to process those requests which
you are for which you are listening to
ok so that thing should be in a loop
your listen will be standing there when
you call the listen there is a system
called listen then then that system call
will enable you your program basically
to wait for the new connections from the
client ok and then after after that you
need to create a while loop and finite
while loop where you are processing the
request infinitely and then when it's
done you need to come out come out of
that for loop while loop or follow
whatever you use right so for that you
need to do a proper signal handling as
well
signal handling I can cover in this I
will try to cover in this the singling
signal handling as well so that both the
things about socket and signal handling
how to gracefully exit your application
your server you can do how you can do
that that I will try to cover ok so
let's start with this one how to in a
slice your socket you need to call a
function
which is called socket so today I will
try to cover few things like socket
system call and how you can analyze the
socket dress structure and how you can
bind to your local port and how you can
listen right and in next video I will do
this thing keep waiting for new requests
and proceed as per the request right so
this thing I will cover next but today I
will try to cover all these 4k socket a
system called the first argument is the
address family a affine it I will let
you know what does this mean and then it
it asks you for the type so the type is
we are using a socket stream which is a
stream socket I mean the connection
oriented socket we have discussed about
the correction oriented and correction
less sockets in the previous video so in
this video we will use that how to use
that so we are going to use the Sauk
stream socket right and the next
argument is the protocol which protocol
you are using if I provide 0 then it
will use the underlying protocol I mean
if your if you are using if your system
underlying framework is using the HTTP
protocol then it will become HTTP but if
you want to use the TCP protocol you are
free to use that I you can use IP proto
TCP this is this is the one so you can
use this one so if you see this a a
finite let discuss them one by one so
okay thing you know this also you know
just need to discuss this one a a finite
so if I press f12 then you can see that
in the header file provided by the
Microsoft as well you can see that when
you are connecting over a network where
you will use TCP or UDP then in that
case you you need to use this address
family right so that your system can
properly resolve the addresses your
program should be able to resolve the
addresses for that you need to provide
the correct address family right so here
since we are using this stream socket
connection air inter socket and we will
be using the TCP transmission control
protocol so in this case I am using a fi
net right so let's see if it if it is
working fine or not so before that I
need to put if
and socket smaller than zero
then what will happen I need to print a
message
this socket not opened so in case you
are not open a socket your socket called
phase then it will return minus one and
if it returns minus 1 then this message
should print it otherwise this message
should get printed open successfully ok
so let's see what happens with this one
so let's run this
okay so if I run this then it shows me
the socket not opened right so it means
this has returned -1 this socket system
call has returned minus 1 but where did
we do the mistake where we have done the
mistake right so the mistake is that
when you are writing a program or socket
program in Windows then you first need
to initialize the WUSA variables right
what are WS a variables basically these
are used these this is a set of
functions not a set of function
basically it's a environment supporting
the window supporting the socket
programming on Windows environment right
so it enables those API is which will
enable basically socket programming on
your Windows platform right so how you
can a slice that you need to create WS
say data the variable of WS a data WS
and then you need to initialize this if
WS a startup and then you need to use
make world this is a macro where you
need to specify the major and minor
versions of WS a families families of
functions so for that you provide two
and two these are the valid versions the
latest versions and then I provide inter
sub WS right so these are the two
arguments if this fails then it will
also return 0 all right less than 0 so
what will happen in that case you can
just write this piece of code there ok
so here you can write W as say failed
- initialized otherwise you can write
like WS say in sliced okay so let's see
what happens and up to what point it
goes so just to start the local debugger
and then you can see ws Innes lies in
the socket opened successfully right so
this you need to do so you can see that
WS say was in a sliced and also the
socket was open successfully because if
this function call is successful then
only all the socket calls all the socket
OPI is the socket API is will start
working right so we have successfully
open the socket if you want to print the
socket ID
what is the socket descriptor ID then
you can just print it here and sock it
and let's see what happens what it
prints you can see that there will be a
number you will be able to see a number
there against the socket descriptor okay
so you can see 184 this is the number
this is the socket ID okay so this call
is done this call is done and the next
one is in a slide the environment for
socket is a structure right so what do
in the sock address basically there is a
variable called there's a structure
other struct sock enter in s RB okay so
this sock endure in structure contains
the details
about the family the port where you will
be listening and the address your you
know your machine address IP address and
this is a special array very which you
just need to initialize with the zero
this has nothing to do with all this
thing but this you need to initialize so
that it has some space to store some
information which is which it uses
during your program executes it contains
that kind of information right so you
need to just in a slice it with the zero
so let's start and let's write that one
so we have in sly we have declared a
variable with name s RB and first of all
we need to provide SRV dot it's same
family is equal to a of underscore I net
and then we need to write like SR me dot
sin underscore port is equal to h2 NS
let me first define a port has define
port is nine nine zero zero nine nine
zero nine right so we're at here I will
write as 2 s 2 NS port so you know what
is this s 2 NS host two networks dot
right so we need to specify the network
byte order when we are providing the
port we have studied about the network
byte order in the previous video and
then we need to write like SRV dot same
address dot s underscore a double d r is
equal to
in adore Annie
all right so if you write like in it
there any then it means that you are
assigning the address of your local
machine because I am creating my own
machine as the server then what I am
doing I am just trying to make my my my
own address assign make my own port
address and sorry not port address the
machine address the IP address of my
machine to this s underscore Edgar right
so this is this will this macro will
simply collect my IP address my system
IP address I don't need to provide it
like one twenty seven point zero point
zero point one right I don't need to do
that ok so if I need to do that suppose
you have to do that then in this case
you need to write I knit underscore
editor and then you need to provide 127
dot zero point zero point one right this
is also a way to do this and this is
also a way to do this
sarva dots in actor dot s underscore a
double dr is equal to in editor any so
both these things will work why we have
provided init init underscore header
what it will do it will simply convert
this string to byte order I can directly
assign it to here I mean I can directly
write like strcpy and then I can assign
this value but what it does it simply
gives a long value basically it needs a
long value which is compatible to my IP
address which has been provided in a IP
address manner right and that to a
network byte order so for that purpose
we will use I knitted if you don't want
to use an integer and if you want to use
if you want to create your own system as
the server then you simply use in a
dharini so whatever in that case
whatever address your system has as of
now that will be taken to this SN s
underscore editor and then we have this
mail set I told you like the last
element xrv dot since dito and then you
need to write like
what probably will provide zero and the
size is 8 the size of this HRV is 8 so
here you need to give address of SRV dot
sin 0 alright so this is the way you can
provide it and now it should have been
Miss lized right then we will compile it
then we will see that how it works and
after that you need to bind it so first
of all let's see if this compiles or not
so just compile it build the solution ok
so it will come it has compiled so let's
see if bind call can work or not so next
step is to bind to the local address so
for so to bind to the local port let's
just declare one more variable on top of
this function int and read this is equal
to s u CC interval s let's put it simple
simply 0 as of now ok so here what I
will do in red is equal to bind and then
just what it needs it needs the socket
name it's n socket it needs pocket ID so
it's n socket and then it means the
address socket derp at strake address
right so you can just write like sock
editor F trick and then you can write
like address of SRV because it takes HRV
socket there in can be type costed -
socket this is a sorry and then it needs
the name Lane
right so it will take the lane so size
of stock Edgar and this should complete
here right so this is the way you need
to pass the values to it now again if n
rate is smaller than zero then the until
fail to bind to local port right so this
is the simple message will be printed
and else what will be print it see out
Ian deal success fully connected
successfully bind to the local code okay
so this is the way it should behave if
it fails then we should simply exit in
fact anywhere you have written the
failure code failure condition check
then you need to provide this it should
be like exit exit and risk rule failure
okay successfully bind to local board it
should come if our program is working
fine so let's see what happens okay so
we are successfully able to bind to the
local port okay so till now our program
is fine we are just ready to listen to
the new request okay so what we will do
we will do here n red is equal to L is
PE and listen and then you need to
provide here n socket the socket name
which you need to listen to and then
back log I put it five what is back log
the second argument is the backlog which
tells you like how many requests at a
time your
server can pool right how many requests
can be there in the active queue for
your server so five can be there if more
than five clients come then in that case
those rest of the clients apart from
pipelines they need to wait in the wait
cube that queue is maintained internally
right so if you are you know active Q
then inactive Q maximum five requests
could be there right so let's see if it
works or not so if n rate is smaller
than zero then if it is smaller than
zero then we can just copy paste it and
we can do one more copy paste here well
to start listen to local port and if it
works then started listening to local
port so it has started listening to
local let's see what happens if my
function call is successful if it is
able to start start listening to the new
clients then in that case we will be
able to see this message otherwise it
will show me this message so let's see
what it shows
I think I need to restart it there is
some problem okay now now you can see
that it has started listening to the
local poultry it has successfully bound
to the local port and and it has started
listening to the local port so now if
new connection comes any new client
comes then my socket which is the end
socket which is the listener socket that
will be able to accept the new
connections over the network right so
how that will be done and how my server
can receive the new connections and how
it can work with the client request that
we will see in the next video right so
it will take around 2 to 3 videos to
completely write a full-fledged program
having both client and server Xand both
connecting to each other ok so first of
all the program which I am writing here
this program is written for multi
server's multi client server it can
handle multiple clients rights and then
I will just write a program just for a
demo that will take only a single class
to let you know that how you can create
a program which can work as a server
which can only serve a particular client
only a single client not to number of
clients right so that's it for today and
in next session in next video what I
will cover I will cover this part keep
waiting for new requests and proceed as
for the request so till then just see
this video and then try it yourself and
and please like subscribe and share my
videos and if you think there is
something else I need to cover then you
can simply write it to the comments and
then let me know your overall opinion
that how I can make it better for you ok
so till we meet next time for till that
time let's get apart and we'll meet soon
so bye bye and have a nice day